# Contributing

Thank you for your interest in contributing to [youlldie](https://youlldie.com). Reading and following the guidelines below will make the contribution process easy and effective for everyone involved.

To get an overview of the project and its technical aspects, please see the [README](README.md).

We take our contributors seriously and hold our community to high standards of communication. Anyone who interacts must confront the basic responsibility of not being a jerk. Stay polite and focus the discussions on the project and the technical aspects. By participating and contributing to this project, you agree to uphold our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

# Vision for the project

**Practically**, the goal of this project is to provide a tool that statistically predicts one's cause and age of death based on one's inherited risk factors and lifestyle choices. It aims to provide a realistic perspective on death and incite users to adopt healthy lifestyles.

**Technically**, the contribution from the open-source community helps making this app an accurate tool for the health research community. This model of human longevity can in turn be used to measure the impact of external factors on human health and ultimately improve the human condition. 

**Phylosophically**, the purpose of the app is to make people contemplate their position in the stream of life. To borrow some words form Alan Watts, everybody should, sometime in their lifetime, consider death. Observe skulls and skeletons and wonder what it will be like to go to sleep and never wake up—never! That is a very gloomy thing for contemplation. But it’s just like manure. Just as manure fertilizes the plants and so on, so the contemplation of death and the acceptance of death is very highly generative of creating life. You’ll get wonderful things out of that. Death is important to think about. It must not be swept under the carpet. Thinking about and accepting death brings a trust in life. It incites one to let go. Stop clingning to constantly changing things that cannot be clung to. Recognize oneself as an unstable particle in the constantly changing flux of eternal life. Aknowledge the union and inseparability from everythink else that there is. The contemplation of death allows one to change point of view and to find oneself. It awakens the senses. Thinking about death gives the opportunity to understand what life is all about and see what this universe is for. It is conducive to liberation. Understnanding that everything is in the right place is the opportunity presented by the contemplation of death.

# Reasons for making the project open source

1. The first reason for making this project open source is to be fully transparent regarding the numbers generated by the app and give users the ability to voice their concerns in the spirit of continuous improvement. That is, we belive that if one disagrees with the numbers that the app generates, one should have the ability to see exactly how those numbers are generated. If one wants to challenge the calculations, one should be able to do so by contributing to the project.  

2. The second reason for making this project open source is to benefit from contributions from people from different fields. That is, predicting age and cause of death needs to take a lot of factors into consideration. There are also different ways those factors can be analyzed statistically to draw conclusions on their impact on age and cause of death (i.e.: classical vs baysian). There is also a lot of evolving scientific litterature and databases that provide inputs into the model. MOreover, there is different ways the numbers can be displayed in a user friendly, informative way. As such, the viability of the project depends on continuous contributions from a collection of people with different backgrounds and expertises. People like you. 

# The types of contributions we are looking for

Please review [README](README.md) to get an overview of the technical aspect of the calculations performed by the app. 

In order to continuously improve the model, please contribute if...
* You believe the calculations should be performed differently
* You are aware of current scientific litterature that suggests different values should be used as inputs
* You find an error in the code

There are many factors that have an impact on age and cause of death. The factors that are taken into consideration by the app are factors that have a significant impact on age and causes of death and are factors that most users are able to provide an input on. Please take this into consideration when contributing.

# Contributrion workflow

Contributions are made to this repo via [Discussions](https://docs.github.com/en/discussions) -> [Issues](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests) -> [Pull Requests](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests) (PRs). Some general guidelines:
* Search for existing Discussions, Issues and PRs before creating your own.
* Open a Discussion before opening an Issue and PR to get a general impression of your idea from fellow contributors. Issues with supporting discussion are more likely to lead to an approved PR and gets merged to the main branch.

# Issues

Issues should be used to follow up on a Discussion to report problems, request a new feature, or to discuss potential changes before a PR is created. When you create a new Issue, a template will be loaded that will guide you through collecting and providing the information we need to investigate. Please provide reference for your claims and ensure it is peer-reviewed material. Unsupported claims will not be considered.

If you find an Issue that addresses your problem, please add your own information to the existing issue rather than creating a new one.

If you find a closed issue about your problem, please open a new issue and reference the closed issue in your description.

# Pull Requests

PRs to our libraries are always welcome but it's best to open a Discussion and Issue to discuss your proposal first. Otherwise, you risk doing a lot of work for nothing!  

In general, PRs should:

* Smaller is better. Submit one pull request per bug fix or feature. A pull request should contain isolated changes pertaining to a single bug fix or feature implementation. Do not refactor or reformat code that is unrelated to your change. It is better to submit many small pull requests rather than a single large one. Enormous pull requests will take enormous amounts of time to review, or may be rejected altogether.

* Prioritize understanding over cleverness. Write code clearly and concisely. Remember that source code usually gets written once and read often. Ensure the code is clear to the reader. The purpose and logic should be obvious to a reasonably skilled developer, otherwise you should add a comment that explains it.

* Follow existing coding style and conventions. Keep your code consistent with the style, formatting, and conventions in the rest of the code base. When possible, these will be enforced with a linter. Consistency makes it easier to review and modify in the future.

# Writing Commit Messages

Please [write a great commit message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/).

1. Separate subject from body with a blank line
2. Limit the subject line to 50 characters
3. Capitalize the subject line
4. Do not end the subject line with a period
5. Use the imperative mood in the subject line (example: "Fix networking issue")
6. Wrap the body at about 72 characters
7. Use the body to explain **why**, *not what and how* (the code shows that!)
8. If applicable, prefix the title with the relevant component name. (examples: "[Docs] Fix typo")
```
[TAG] Short summary of changes in 50 chars or less

Add a more detailed explanation here, if necessary. Possibly give 
some background about the issue being fixed, etc. The body of the 
commit message can be several paragraphs. Further paragraphs come 
after blank lines and please do proper word-wrap.

Wrap it to about 72 characters or so. In some contexts, 
the first line is treated as the subject of the commit and the 
rest of the text as the body. The blank line separating the summary 
from the body is critical (unless you omit the body entirely); 
various tools like `log`, `shortlog` and `rebase` can get confused 
if you run the two together.

Explain the problem that this commit is solving. Focus on why you
are making this change as opposed to how or what. The code explains 
how or what. Reviewers and your future self can read the patch, 
but might not understand why a particular solution was implemented.
Are there side effects or other unintuitive consequences of this
change? Here's the place to explain them.

 - Bullet points are okay, too

 - A hyphen or asterisk should be used for the bullet, preceded
   by a single space, with blank lines in between

Note the fixed or relevant GitHub issues at the end:

Resolves: #123
See also: #456, #789
```

# Where can I get help

If you can't find the answer to your question you can ask it directly to support@youlldie.com

# How to setup your environment

In order to make updates to the youlldie code, you must be able to use R. If you don't already use R, please refer to [The R Project for Statistical Computing](https://www.r-project.org) to install R and get started. 

Shiny is an R package used to build web apps straight from R. In order to use shiny, you must set it up in R. Please refer to the follow [Shiny Learning Resources](https://shiny.rstudio.com/tutorial/#get-started) to get started using r-shiny.
 
You will need to install and load the following packages in you R environment in order to run the youlldie shiny app. Simply copy-paste the lines below into R to have those packages installed and loaded.


```
#Install required packages:
install.packages("shiny")
install.packages("hrbrthemes")
install.packages("viridis")
install.packages("gridExtra")
install.packages("ggrepel)
install.packages("plotly")
install.packages("ggplot2")
install.packages("dplyr")
 
#load required packages:
library(shiny)
library(hrbrthemes)
library(viridis)
library(gridExtra)
library(ggrepel)
library(plotly)
library(ggplot2)
library(dplyr)
```

# FAQ


